# Comparing Haplotrees
 
A potential concern in this analysis is whether using Haplogrep3 tools for haplogroup assignment while relying on the FTDNA RSRS tree for knowledge graph analytics introduces inconsistencies that could confound the results.  Haplogrep3 assigns haplogroups using rules and a scoring algorithm alined with its phylotree, in our case the RSRS phylotree v 17.  The knowledge graph tree is based on the FTDNA tree with modification to create the dnode tree. The analysis comparing these three trees are reveals they are highly similar in their topology and variant definitions. The knowledge graph, however, is not limited to just the variants used in either tree—it contains a far more comprehensive set of variants. The first Excel tab shows a 27% concordance between FTDNA and Haplogrep3 variant calls, but this reflects only a subset of the full variant dataset. Our comparison of deletions, insertions, and back mutations confirms that 99.8% of Haplogrep3 variants are present in the dataset, reinforcing that the analytics are not constrained by tree-specific variants. This analysis shows that the FTDNA and Haplogrep3 phylotrees topologies are well aligned and do not confound the conclusions that observed variants are often missing in the haplogroup assignments by the Haplogrep3 tools.

The comparison details and Cypher queries used are in the <a href="https://github.com/waigitdas/mt_DNA_Knowledge_Graph/blob/main/010_Knowledge_Graph/D_Graph_Characteristics/b_Comparing_haplotrees/ftdna_phylotree_compare_20250214_230541.xlsx">Excel file</a>

<a href="https://github.com/waigitdas/Mitochondrial-DNA-Research/tree/main/010_Knowledge_Graph/D_Graph_Characteristics/c_Back_mutations">NEXT ➡️</a>